= rails-validators

Provides these validators:

== Attribute validators

* company_name
* person_name
* email_format (using regexp)
* email (using mail)
* url_format 

Person name:

class Pet
  ...
  validates :nick_name, :presence => true, :length => {:within => 2..12}, :person_name => true
end

Company name:

class Company
  ...
  validates :name, :presence => true, :length => {:within => 2..40}, :company_name => true
end

Email format:

class ContactInfo
  ...
  validates :email, :presence => true, :email_format => true
end

Email:

class ContactInfo
  ...
  validates :email, :presence => true, :email => true
end

Email:

class Profile
  ...
  validates :webpage, :presence => true, :url_format => true
end

=== Configuration

To finetune the name validators, add a validators.rb initializer file

NameValidator.name_length 3..40

This will make the name validators test for a name length between 2 and 40 characters! 
Note: The company_name validator always allows for a single character name, unless overridden explicitly using the :length option.

== Complex validators

* full_name

Usage:

class Person
  ...
  validates_with FullNameValidator 
end

== Generator

Use the provided Rails generator to copy the validators directly into your Rails app so they are available to your models

$ rails_validators [list of validators]

Example: Copy all validators (default)

$ rails_validators

Example: Copy specific validators

$ rails_validators email_format url_format

== Contributing to rails-validators
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Kristian Mandrup. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

